What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

when you initialize a repository a hidden directory (.git) is added to the current directory (where you called git init).
No commits are added to the repository initailly though, and you have to make a commit yourself after repo initialization

You need repos in order to have a workspace for your version control environment.


How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

the staging area is where you add files to be added in order to make a commit, which is different from the repository which
acts as a directory for your project files etc.


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

we can use the command

                git diff

this way you will be able to compare the files in the working directory with those in the staging area to get a look
at the changes you are about to commit. This way you get to make sure that you are commiting exactly what you want
to commit.

Also, you can use this command

                git diff --staged

with this command you can compare the staging area with the most recent commit you have.


What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

1- when you have new experimental feauters that you want to try wit affecting the main source code

2- in other situations where you need to collaborate with other people making adding branches for certain tasks
and then merging them with the master branch more reasonable than adding everything on the same line to avoid errors
and keep track of bugs and isolate them more easily.


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

The diagram help idenify where the branches are added relative to commits added to other branches e.g. master branches.

They help better represent the working tree to keep track of the development process.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

the result of merging is:

1- files from the branch you are merging are updated by inserting or deleting lines.

2- commits are added to the branch you are merging into and sorted based on the time of the commit.


What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Using git you can make sure that everything gets merged correctly, but leave the places where conflicts occur
for the user to modify and resolve.

Using manual merging on the other hand can be tedious specially in large projects, since you will have to
manually compare every line of code in each version to finalize the merging, on the other hand it is more accurate when it comes to avoiding refactoring issues.